
Day XX: May XX, 2018

Today's Progress: 

Thoughts: 

Link to work: N/A

Day 4: May 23, 2018

Today's Progress: Watched a video tutorial on NumPy.

Thoughts: I need to have some context around Python.  I should get my PaperSpace system and environment set up, but I'm really thinking I need to study Python.  It's too hard to learn if I can't read the code, and too difficult to try variations on the AI materials without knowing how to edit the code.

Link to work: N/A

Day 3: May 22, 2018

Today's Progress: Researched NumPy.  Identified some O'Reilly media courses to watch.

Thoughts: I didn't have much of a chance to watch videos because it was a long work day, I went to dinner with colleagues, and then I worked out.  So I didn't get in my full hour, but I got a reasonable chunk of time in.  I ran out of energy, trying to do more would be a waste of time.

Link to work: N/A

Day 2: May 21, 2018

Today's Progress: Watched the remainder (over an hour) of lecture 1 of the fast.ai course in my hotel room.

Thoughts: I took it slow and watched the lecture while multi-tasking a little bit.  It was great because the professor said that most people watch all of the lectures several times, read the forum, and study numpy, jupyter networks, and play around with building neural network models.  I have been fairly terrified that I wouldn't be able to commit to 100 days of progress in coding.  But getting into it a bit, I feel like I have a shot at this.

Link to work: N/A

Day 1: May 20, 2018

Today's Progress: Watched part of lecture 1 of fast.ai course, set goals for Round 2 of #100DaysOfCode.

Thoughts: It was insanely difficult to restart on this.  Work pressures kept me afraid to move forward.  And for some reason, I had trouble working on this while traveling.  Even though I have nothing better to do in the hotel.  No family commitments, work isn't that all-consuming.  I sat down and set some goals and watched the first part of the lecture during Tess's silks class.

Link to work: N/A
